<!-- continued from page 3 -->

*value group* of $v$. We say that $v$ is a *discrete valuation* if its value group is equal to $\mathbb{Z}$ (every discrete subgroup of $\mathbb{R}$ is isomorphic to $\mathbb{Z}$, so we can always rescale a valuation with a discrete value group so that this holds). Given a field $k$ with valuation $v$, the set

$$A := \{x \in k : v(x) \geq 0\},$$

is the *valuation ring* of $k$ (with respect to $v$). A *discrete valuation ring* (DVR) is an integral domain that is the valuation ring of its fraction field with respect to a discrete valuation; such a ring $A$ cannot be a field, since $v(\operatorname{Frac} A) = \mathbb{Z} \neq \mathbb{Z}_{\geq 0} = v(A)$.

It is easy to verify that every valuation ring $A$ is a in fact a ring, and even an integral domain (if $x$ and $y$ are nonzero then $v(xy) = v(x) + v(y) \neq \infty$, so $xy \neq 0$), with $k$ as its fraction field. Notice that for any $x \in k^{\times}$ we have $v(1/x) = v(1) - v(x) = -v(x)$, so at least one of $x$ and $1/x$ has nonnegative valuation and lies in $A$. It follows that $x \in A$ is invertible (in $A$) if and only if $v(x) = 0$, hence the unit group of $A$ is

$$A^{\times} = \{x \in k : v(x) = 0\},$$

We can partition the nonzero elements of $k$ according to the sign of their valuation. Elements with valuation zero are units in $A$, elements with positive valuation are non-units in $A$, and elements with negative valuation do not lie in $A$, but their multiplicative inverses are non-units in $A$. This leads to a more general notion of a valuation ring.

**Definition 1.11.** A *valuation ring* is an integral domain $A$ with fraction field $k$ with the property that for every $x \in k$, either $x \in A$ or $x^{-1} \in A$.

Let us now suppose that the integral domain $A$ is the valuation ring of its fraction field with respect to some discrete valuation $v$ (which we shall see is uniquely determined). Any element $\pi \in A$ for which $v(\pi) = 1$ is called a *uniformizer*. Uniformizers exist, since $v(A) = \mathbb{Z}_{\geq 0}$. If we fix a uniformizer $\pi$, every $x \in k^{\times}$ can be written uniquely as

$$x = u\pi^n$$

where $n = v(x)$ and $u = x/\pi^n \in A^{\times}$ and uniquely determined. It follows that $A$ is a unique factorization domain (UFD), and in fact $A$ is a principal ideal domain (PID). Indeed, every nonzero ideal of $A$ is equal to

$$(\pi^n) = \{a \in A : v(a) \geq n\},$$

for some integer $n \geq 0$. Moreover, the ideal $(\pi^n)$ depends only on $n$, not the choice of uniformizer $\pi$: if $\pi'$ is any other uniformizer its unique representation $\pi' = u\pi^1$ differs from $\pi$ only by a unit. The ideals of $A$ are thus totally ordered, and the ideal

$$\mathfrak{m} = (\pi) = \{a \in A : v(a) > 0\}$$

is the unique maximal ideal of $A$ (and also the only nonzero prime ideal of $A$).

**Definition 1.12.** A *local ring* is a commutative ring with a unique maximal ideal.

**Definition 1.13.** The *residue field* of a local ring $A$ with maximal ideal $\mathfrak{m}$ is the field $A/\mathfrak{m}$.
