**Definition 1.19.** Given a ring extension $B/A$, the ring $\tilde{A} = \{b \in B : b \text{ is integral over } A\}$ is the *integral closure* of $A$ in $B$. When $\tilde{A} = A$ we say that $A$ is *integrally closed in $B$*. For a domain $A$, its *integral closure* (or *normalization*) is its integral closure in its fraction field, and $A$ is *integrally closed* (or *normal*) if it is integrally closed in its fraction field.

**Proposition 1.20.** *If $C/B/A$ is a tower of ring extensions in which $B$ is integral over $A$ and $C$ is integral over $B$ then $C$ is integral over $A$.*

*Proof.* See [1, Thm. 10.27] or [2, Cor. 5.4]. $\square$

**Corollary 1.21.** *If $B/A$ is a ring extension, then the integral closure of $A$ in $B$ is integrally closed in $B$.*

**Proposition 1.22.** *The ring $\mathbb{Z}$ is integrally closed.*

*Proof.* We apply the rational root test: suppose $r/s \in \mathbb{Q}$ is integral over $\mathbb{Z}$, where $r$ and $s$ are coprime integers. Then

$$\left(\frac{r}{s}\right)^n + a_{n-1} \left(\frac{r}{s}\right)^{n-1} + \cdots a_1 \left(\frac{r}{s}\right) + a_0 = 0$$

for some $a_0, \ldots, a_{n-1} \in \mathbb{Z}$. Clearing denominators yields

$$r^n + a_{n-1} s r^{n-1} + \cdots a_1 s^{n-1} r + a_0 s^n = 0,$$

thus $r^n = -s(a_{n-1} r^{n-1} + \cdots a_1 s^{n-2} r + a_0 s^{n-1})$ is a multiple of $s$. But $r$ and $s$ are coprime, so $s = \pm 1$ and therefore $r/s \in \mathbb{Z}$. $\square$

**Corollary 1.23.** *Every unique factorization domain is integrally closed. In particular, every PID is integrally closed.*

*Proof.* The proof of Proposition 1.22 works for any UFD. $\square$

**Example 1.24.** The ring $\mathbb{Z}[\sqrt{5}]$ is not a UFD (nor a PID) because it is not integrally closed: consider $\phi = (1 + \sqrt{5})/2 \in \operatorname{Frac} \mathbb{Z}[\sqrt{5}]$, which is integral over $\mathbb{Z}$ (and hence over $\mathbb{Z}[\sqrt{5}]$), since $\phi^2 - \phi - 1 = 0$. But $\phi \notin \mathbb{Z}[\sqrt{5}]$, so $\mathbb{Z}[\sqrt{5}]$ is not integrally closed.

The corollary implies that every discrete valuation ring is integrally closed. In fact, more is true.

**Proposition 1.25.** *Every valuation ring is integrally closed.*

*Proof.* Let $A$ be a valuation ring with fraction field $k$ and let $\alpha \in k$ be integral over $A$. Then

$$\alpha^n + a_{n-1} \alpha^{n-1} + a_{n-2} \alpha^{n-2} + \cdots + a_1 \alpha + a_0 = 0$$

for some $a_0, a_1, \ldots, a_{n-1} \in A$. Suppose $\alpha \notin A$. Then $\alpha^{-1} \in A$, since $A$ is a valuation ring. Multiplying the equation above by $\alpha^{-(n-1)} \in A$ and moving all but the first term on the LHS to the RHS yields

$$\alpha = -a_{n-1} - a_{n-1} \alpha^{-1} - \cdots - a_1 \alpha^{2-n} - a_0 \alpha^{1-n} \in A,$$

contradicting our assumption that $\alpha \notin A$. It follows that $A$ is integrally closed. $\square$
